A lot of posters I saw over the years whined about Realm Divide, how it suddenly ramped up the difficulty insanely, and how they could not keep alliances or vassals after Realm Divide no matter how much Koku they threw at them.It is very simple.On your Clan Management screen, there is a bar that fills up in yellow as the Shogun notices your achievements and growing threat to him.  Once that bar gets full, Realm Divide happens.  What fills the bar?  Mainly how many provinces you have captured, but possibly also a little bit from you getting Heroic victories or having high honor (like from using the Heroic Victory trick to reach 6 honor).  Having used the Heroic Victory trick three times at the start, I think I could capture 16-17 provinces without triggering Realm Divide.  My strategy was to reach that point, then turtle and defend while I built up my wealth and prepared my armies and navy, and only trigger Realm Divide once I felt ready to take on all of Japan.Realm Divide also triggers if you capture Kyoto (before that bars fills).KEY INFO:  Realm Divide's negative diplomacy effect can actually trigger TWICE.  If you trigger Realm Divide by conquering enough provinces, and after that you capture Kyoto, you will get a message that you capturing Kyoto has awakened everyone to your threat.  This is important to know concerning Vassals.VASSALS AND ALLIANCES:Realm Divide causes -100 diplomatic penalty with AI factions.  This is extremely difficult to overcome.  It may be possible to hold on to a great alliance that you had from the beginning of the game, if you have every treaty with the faction and married into that Clan and give them tributes regularly, but you should EXPECT every alliance to end post-Realm Divide, this includes your vassals betraying you.  Basically, do not trigger Realm Divide unless you have secured your territorial flanks and can afford to lose all trade.VASSAL TRICK:You can still create vassals after Realm Divide, but if you triggered it via filling the bar and not by capturing Kyoto, they will still get the -100 diplomacy and will eventually betray you.However, though I have not tried this, I read an insight someone posted long ago, that if you have captured Kyoto, then any Vassals you create AFTER capturing Kyoto, will not have that -100 diplomacy malus and therefore could actually be reliable going forward.  If you are into making vassals, try this trick out and report back in the comments. 