https://www.reddit.com/r/totalwar/comments/ej9esk/shogun_2_comprehensive_economic_guide_yes_in_2019/Reddit user "Doccit" makes a good point with his guide about how the benefit of minimum taxes and waiting on growth takes too long to see.  I highly recommend you read his guide.But since a lack of understanding of "town growth" and "food" have been issues since day 1, if I'm going to make an Ultimate Guide, I need to address it:Let's use a province that has a wealth of 3000 Koku.  If you set taxes to 10%, that province will generate 300 Koku per turn off that wealth (there may be additional income from commerce, farming, trade, etc, but let's keep it simple for now).  If you set taxes to 30%, then you would get 900 Koku per turn from that 3000 wealth province.But let's say that province experience "town growth" and eventually has 4000 wealth.  10% would = 400 Koku per turn, while 30% would = 1200 Koku per turn.So obviously you want your provinces to grow in wealth.  Having 10 provinces worth 3000 Koku each at 30% tax rate = 9000 Koku per turn; while 10 provinces worth 4000 Koku each at 30% tax rate = 12000 Koku per turn.  That extra 3000 Koku income I think would support an additional full stack army of Yari Ashigaru with change leftover.HOW TO INCREASE GROWTH:There are buildings and technology that increase your growth, and reducing taxes should increase growth, play around with it and check a provinces info screen to see changes in the growth rate based upon what you are doing.Key info you need:  1 Surplus Food = +1 Growth in ALL provinces.So if you are generating 50 Surplus Food per turn (you can see how much Surplus Food you have on the main screen, I think bottom right corner?) then that would be +50 town growth in EACH of your controlled provinces.  So let's say you control 10 provinces and you have +50 Food and therefore +50 Growth in all of them.  After 10 turns, the wealth of each of those individual provinces would have increased by 500, so 5000 across all 10 provinces.  30% of 5000 = 1500 Koku per turn, which is close to supporting a full stack army of Ashigaru.  And if you can keep the +50 Food Surplus and gain control of more provinces, your total wealth and income should keep going up and up.PROBLEM:Building higher tier castles use food, and building higher tier markets (Rice Exchange, etc) also use food, and I think there are some others.  And to get more food, you need to build higher tier farms, which can cost lots of Koku and takes time.Generally you want your castles to be at least Tier 2 so you have 2 building slots, so you can build a market and a ninja inn if the province is a non-recruitment province, and you want at least Tier 3 castle in a province you will be recruiting from, so you can build an encampment + whatever Dojos or Stables you need according to your army composition strategy.This means each province will be using up at least 2 food and maybe more, so their farms need to generate more than that to have a surplus.  This is doable, but you need a lot of provinces with lots of upgraded farms to achieve +50 Food Surplus.  This is what Doccit means when he wrote that by the time you achieve this you should have already beaten the game.But if you do not want to have to remember to change your tax rate each turn, and you are fine with a slower build up until you reach the point where you generate so much growth and income that you can just steamroll to final victory, such as in a Domination campaign, this is good info to know.  You could get 30 or so provinces, keep the AI at bay while growth increases your income to crazy levels, and then build enough armies to steamroll the rest of Japan. 