In certain provinces you can build a Master Weaponsmith (+4 Melee Attack) or Master Armourer (+3 Armour).  You can also build the encampment building which you can then turn into an Armoury (+2 Armour) or a Jujutsu Dojo (+2 Melee Attack); for a total of either +6 Melee Attack or +5 Armour for units recruited in that province.So which is better?Short and sweet answer:  +6 Melee AttackWhy?  Because normal Yari Ashigaru have +4 Melee Attack while normal Katana Samurai have +12 Melee Attack.  Give your Ashigaru +6 and now they have 10 Melee Attack.  With high Veteran ranks they could very well climb to +16 Melee Attack, and that is not including the General skill that gives Ashigaru +3 Melee Attack.  And remember, Ashigaru units have more soldiers than Samurai units.  Basically, unlike Rome 2 where I do not believe you could ever get peasant level units anywhere near as good as Praetorians no matter how many upgrades or veteran levels they had, in Shogun 2, you can essentially make your cheapest, "worst" melee infantry into killing machines that will wreck even the best Samurai.  Now technically if you were fighting another human player, Samurai could be increased by the same +6 Melee Attack and therefore keep the large difference in stats to Ashigaru and therefore Samurai could still mulch Ashigaru easily in that situation, BUT, the AI is very unlikely to do that.  Therefore, you can make your Ashigaru better than the AI's Samurai and so mulch the AI's forces with a horde of cheap but now powerful units.This applies if you are using Bow Samurai as well, which I think have 6 Melee Attack normally, so with the +6 Melee Attack they would equal Katana Samurai, but after having decimated the enemy with arrows first.I considered that +5 Armour might be better on Warrior Monks, Katana, Naginata and No-Dachi Samurai and Katana Cavalry, and on General units, because they already have high melee attack and their melee attack and defense can be further increased by veteran ranks while armour cannot, so the idea being:A Shimazu Katana Samurai unit has 14 Melee Attack and 5 Armour.  If you could recruit them at Rank 6 or 7, I believe they would get +6 Melee Attack and +6 Melee Defense, so they would have 20 Melee Attack.  Ok, so now they can either be given +6 Melee Attack or +5 Armour from buildings.  Which is better, a 26 Melee Attack, 5 Armour Katana Samurai, or a 20 Melee Attack, 10 Armour Katana Samurai?I was never able to do or find the testing needed to figure that out.But that debate only applies to units that already have high melee attack and furthermore assumes you get the tech and build the buildings that would let you recruit +6 or +7 Rank veteran units right off the bat.Everyone else, Yari and Bow units and light cavalry, etc, would all benefit more I believe from the +6 Melee Attack so they can more easily and quickly kill Samurai units, so I would recommend going +6 Melee Attack. 