Navies are expensive and having the best ships to be able to auto-resolve battles is too costly, plus repairing ships that have been extensively damaged is ridiculously costly.Important!:  You can increase the speed of the battle to be faster, and remember that if you are defending against overwhelming odds, you can set the battle timer to 20 minutes and run away around the map until the timer runs out and you win.Here is how to build inexpensive fleets that will give you victory fast:Research the tech that gives you Fire Arrows.  Recruit 5-6 Bow Kobaya.  Note that Bow Kobaya get a speed boost skill.Important Note!:  you can right-click on the Fire Arrow icon in battle to set it to be used automatically on cooldown.  Fire Arrows are unlimited in naval battles.Here is what you do.  You will face off in a line with the enemy, the enemy will be in a line.  Move your Kobaya toward one end of the enemy line or the other.  The enemy will start moving to attack you.  Now you play keep away, where you have your Kobaya facing away from the enemy ships, ideally at an angle to their line so that them chasing you creates a T, your line of 5-6 Kobya are all shooting at their lead ship as they chase you, destroying their fleet one a time.  If you are using Fire Arrows, they should speed up the process of victory by catching the enemy ships on fire and destroying them.  You keep running away as the Fire Arrow skill reloads and use it on cooldown.  And you can do this on maximum speed setting so that it is not as boring.  There is an element of the wind affecting how well your fire arrows do at lighting the enemy ships on fire, if you master that victory should be even faster, but I generally just put Fire Arrows on auto-fire and ran around until they succeeded in lighting the enemy up.Note that you can do this without Fire Arrows, it just takes longer because you have to whittle down the enemy ships troops instead of potentially near-instantly destroying an enemy ship that catches fire.Cheers. 